# Smart-Bridge

                                 ROCK IDENTIFICATION USING DEEP CNN(#CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORK)
Convolutional neural networks are used  to train and identify rock thin sections. There are three innovations in this method. Firstly the convolutional neural network is used in the field of geological experiment testing and it can automatically identify and classify the rock thin sections. Secondly the original image of rock thin sections are sliced and segmented, so that the convolutional neural network could learn more details of the rock mineral texture without damaging the original resolution of the image. Thirdly using other image enhancement techniques, such as random flipping and standardization, can expand the sample data set and enhance the robustness of the model. Finally the training model achieves the desired results.
Convolution neural network (CNN) is an important deep learning architecture. It can extract the image features automatically and has a high classify accuracy. A Convolutional neural network (CNN) is a neural  network that has one or more convolutional layers and are used mainly for image processing, classification, segmentation and also for other auto correlated data. A convolution is essentially sliding a filter over the input. CNN is used in computer vision, mainly in face recognition, scene labelling, image classification, action recognition, human pose estimation and document analysis. This layer ensures the spatial relationship between pixels by learning image features using small squares of input data. This is the most important layer that contains a set of filters whose parameters need to be learned. Important information regarding the nature of rocks is communicated through concise, accurate descriptions. This information allows the geologist to identify the rock, and, in the process, to learn about its history and the geological environment in which it was formed
                                                       

